Hi everybody today we're going to look at a multi loop circuit.
I've got a great surrogate here for he has got three branches got three batteries and three resistors
and a goal today is to calculate what the current is through each branch.
So in order to do that we're going to use Kirchhoff's rules the loop rule and the junction rule in order
to set up a equation then solve for what the currents are.
So this is all we've got we've got three batteries this is a 20 volt battery 10 and a 30 volt battery
and we got these three resistors here just kind of random numbers here two four and five ohms and what
we want to do we want to find the current in each of the three resistors.
The first thing to keep in mind here is although you've probably learned about what an equivalent resistance
is for this problem here you can't really combine these in series or parallel.
Right you might say well both of these are in parallel however you can't because there are also batteries
here.
So that actually will not work.
So you've got to be a little bit careful with this not not all circuits can be simplified using equivalent
resistors like this at least not in the traditional sense of using combinations of resistors in series
and directly in parallel.
So be careful not in this problem.
However we can still solve it using Kirchhoff's rules.
So in order to do that when I'm going to do is I'm going to start by labeling all these points and I
just kind of arbitrarily going to call them A B C D E and F and I'm going to do this because what I'm
going to start doing loops I just want to identify which loops I'm doing.
So we're very clear now two of these points here are actually even more specific I can actually make
these blue a point a blue and I'm also going to make point the blue.
And at these points I could apply what is called a junction roll.
So how would you apply Kirchhoff's junction rule to these points.
Well Kirchhoff's junction junction rule tells you that whatever current flows into the junction has
that be the current that flows out of that junction.
Well as it stands right now there is nothing labeled on this diagram so you can't even really write
a junction rule.
So step number one is you have to pick a direction for the current.
Now you might say well how do I do that.
Actually it doesn't matter which direction you pick for the junction roll.
I've solved tons of these problems.
So I think I got a pretty good idea what's going to happen especially here look it as a 20 volt battery.
And again this side here's the positive side the negative side.
And this one is stronger than the 10 mile battery.
So I'm probably going to guess that the current is going to flow through here and I'm going to call
this one.
Now over here there's only one battery in this outer branch here.
I'm going to guess that the current here is going to flow over here.
I'm going to call it something different.
It's not going to be the same current.
This is going to be current I three in this outer branch and the one down the middle.
I don't know I'm going to guess that it's going to go down and it doesn't matter if I was wrong or if
I'm completely right at the end the solution will tell us whether or not our guest was correct or incorrect.
So this is what I've got so I've got three different branches to the circuit.
Therefore I need three different currents and that's what I'm going to try to solve for what are I one
2 and three.
So the first thing we're to do is we're going to write a junction rule.
We're going to write a junction rule at junction a.
So a junction of the junction rule says whatever follows.
And let's see what goes in.
Well I was going this way I was going down here and it's looking at its I three that goes into the junction.
I3 that has to be equal to whatever current flows out of the junction.
So look we have we've got one that's flowing this way.
I've got I to flowing down in the center branch the way I've got it labeled here.
So that means i3 must be equal to the current flowing out which is one plus two.
That is the junction rule.
Now you can go ahead and say well what about this junction down over here.
If I write the same expression my junction rule for the junction down here a point D What am I going
to find.
What's flowing into the junction.
I have I one flowing into the junction and I also have two flowing into the junction which is this term
over here the second term on the right hand side of my first equation.
And what else.
What's flowing out of the junction here a point.
That's the current I three I three is flowing down this lower section over here and that is the current
i3 which is the same everywhere in this kind of outer branch over here.
So actually you get the same expression whether you choose this point or that point to right.
The junction will are the next thing we want to do now is we want to write the loop rule Kirchoff's
loop rule knowm.
So the loop rule is pretty simple.
You simply have to pick loops.
In this case there are three loops they can actually choose for this circuit and we'll write it down
for all three.
So I'm going to start with a loop that starts at point A B C D and then goes back to A A B C D and then
I'm going to go back to a if I choose that loop and I sum all the voltages across the cories and across
the resistors and I come back to the same point the loop rule says you sum all of those potential differences
across every single element.
You come back to where you start at the end.
There should be no change in electrical potential.
So let's start over here at Point A and I'm going across a battery when you cross a battery when I go
from the negative to the positive.
I get a voltage gain equal to the voltage of the battery.
Now I'm going to cross a 2 ohm resistor and I'm going to cross it in the direction of the current that
I've picked.
So that means that the current flowing from the top to the bottom that means this side here is at a
higher potential than a low on.
So that means there's a potential drop across that resistor and that's given by Ohm's law.
That's simply the resistance times the current the current is flowing through there right now and right
over here at Point C I'm going across a battery now going across a battery from the high potential to
the low potential.
So I get a voltage drop whenever you get a voltage drop you put a negative sign minus 10 volts.
Now I'm at the same potential all the way till I get over here.
All right.
Now look what happens over here in the center Branch I'm going from point to point A.
I am crossing a resistor.
However look what's going on here.
If the current is flowing the positive current is flowing from the top to the bottom here and I'm doing
my loop rule in a way that I'm going from point to point A.
That means I'm going from a low potential to a higher potential.
When you do that you have to have a positive sign here and the positive voltage gain that you're going
to get here when I'm doing my loop rule given by Ohm's law the value of the resistance multiplied by
the current flowing through it.
That's it.
I go back to Point A.
There we go.
So let's call the junction will acquire and one I'm going to call this equation too.
Now let's go ahead and maybe do another loop rule another loop rule I can do now is using the loop A
D E F and then go back to A.
So let's do that one a D E F and then go back to A.
What does that loop will look like.
Again so here I'm actually going around counterclockwise around this loop.
So when I start from and I go down to look what happens now in this case.
I'm crossing this four ohm resistor.
However I'm crossing it and I'm going in the same direction as the current.
That means I'm going from a high potential to a lower potential.
I mean I got I had a voltage drop given by four times Aitu to that's ohms law written for this resistor.
Then I go all the way to the battery I'm going across a battery now from the low potential to the high
potential.
And there's a potential difference equal to 30 volts.
Again 30 volts when I crossed that battery.
And then at the end here I'm going to cross this 5 ohm resistor across a 5 ohm resistor going in the
same direction as the current which means there's a voltage drop given by ohms law which is five times
the value of the resistance multiplied by the current flowing through it.
Be careful here.
This is i3 that flowing through that resistor.
I go back to point a that has to be zero.
This is equation 3.
Now I could have done another loop I could have done this big exterior loop here what will we call that
when we call that a b c d e f back to A.
We've gone through every single point here going around this exterior loop while the first three terms
are going to look exactly like they do in equation 2.
So here you have to have plus 20.
You have to have minus two times I 1 you have to have minus 10.
All right those are the first three terms and then what do I do and then I go over the 30 volt battery
plus 30 and then I go through this five.
This is similar to what I did for Equation 3.
I have to have a voltage drop here equal to 5 3 equal to zero and that is the equation for now.
There are only three unknowns in this problem.
The three unknowns in this problem are either 1 2 and 3.
If you did a little bit of algebra you should know that if you have three unknowns all you need are
three equations in order to solve this.
We have four equations.
We actually have too much information.
Actually it turns out that equation for you would get equation for if you actually simply added equation
2 to Equation 3 and you can check that out for yourself.
This is simply equation 2 plus equation 3.
So equation 4 basically doesnt give us any additional information because its simply the sum of two
other equations.
You see if I sum both of those equations what's going to happen in this equation here you have four
Aitu in this equation you have minus four i.e. two if I sum both of those up those two terms are going
to vanish and then I'll be left with equation for.
So in order to solve this now all we're going to do is we're going to use equation 1 equation 2 and
Equation 3.
And at this point the problem is all algebra.
I've taken care of all the physics simply by writing down the junction rule by labeling the currents
in each branch and by using the loop rule in order to obtain these algebraic expressions.
So let's set them up now and solve for the unknowns and see what the currents are.
OK.
In order to solve for this.
Now here I've rewritten my three equations so my junction rule and then my two Kirchhoff's loop rules
here.
Let me work with equation 2 and 3 and kind of simplify those a little bit.
Basically what I'm going to try to do is I'm going to try to eliminate.
I too and I three from the top equation and I can do that simply by eliminating Aitu from equation too.
And that you can do simply by isolating the current Aitu here.
So how would that look like.
You'd have for Aitu.
And now if I bring everything else on the other on the other side what are you going to end up with
you're going to end up with two times I won.
What else are you going to have 20 minus 10 gives me 10 if I bring that on the other side it's going
to be minus 10 which means that at the end of the day if I divide through by four I'm going to get that.
The current Aitu is simply going to be one divided by two minus.
If I can simplify that 10 over 4 5 over to 2.5.
Are there is an expression now for the current Aitu only in terms of I 1.
Now let's go ahead and simplify the current i3 do something similar over here.
If I bring the 5 I 3 on the other side I get 5 i3 equals to 30 minus four times I had to route 3.
I meant to say 4.
Ok now we could do a little bit more algebra here in order to simplify this.
This here is simply equal to 30 minus.
Let's get rid of Aitu altogether I can get rid of Aitu by substituting the expression I just got up
here.
This is I want over to minus five over five over two.
All right.
So we're almost done here just do a little bit more algebra here.
This is 30.
And this here if I multiply through what am I going to get.
I'm going to get minus two I won over here I'm going to get what's going to be left with plus 10.
OK.
So at the end my expression for I three member here I had five i 3.
So really at the end I got to divide through by five.
So what are we left with we're going to get 30 plus 10.
Gives me 40 minus two I won.
And I can't forget to divide by five.
So this here simplifies nicely to eight minus two over five.
I won.
All right.
So we have two important expressions here we have two simply in terms of Iowa 1 and I have I three here
in terms of I won.
Now what we're going to do is we're going to go back to our junction rule and we're going to substitute
in the expressions for Aitu then i3 and then we're only going to be left with an equation for I won
and I'll be able to solve that current.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So that means we're going to have one plus instead of two here let's substitute our expression.
This is I won over to minus five over to that there has to be equal to I three I three is eight minus
two fifths multiplied by 1 All right look at this expression over here there's only I one is the only
unknown in this expression so let's go back.
Let's group all the Iowan terms together.
This is what it looks like.
You have I won plus I went over to bring this term on the other side.
What are you going to get you getting a plus two fifths.
I won that there must be equal to eight.
Plus there is this term over here five over two I buried in bring it to the other side right at the
end we have to put everything on a common denominator.
It kind of helps.
I could choose 10.
Here is a common denominator for this side.
That here means I'm left with 10 plus five plus for all of this gets multiplied by I won.
And here if I put things on a common denominator you're going to get 16 plus five divided by two.
All right.
So we're nearing the end over here this side.
What do we get right to get 19 over 10
multiplied by I.
And this site here gives me 21 over two.
So you can factor out a two on each side.
We're going to be left with five so the final expression now for I one you have to bring the five over
on this side and you have to divide through by 19.
It's a little bit long.
You got to be careful here.
So five times 21 gives me 105 and divided by 19 years the current for the bridge I won which I had labeled
as this one over here.
This was the current I won here 105 divided by 19.
All right I've solved now for I won let me just kind of make some room here so you don't really need
all this algebra here anymore.
We know what the value of i won his.
Now what I want to do is I want to solve for what I.
Two and Three are given the value of 1.
Now you could just substitute stuff in your calculator.
If you do that you should get that.
I won here 5.5 to 6 amps approximately.
All right so now let's go ahead and find Aitu.
So I to all you have to do is simply substitute the value of i won here.
Now the fractions get a little bit messy but it's kind of good.
Just play around with those things.
You get 105 divided by 19.
And that they don't forget is divided by two.
So you still need at two there and minus five over two.
OK.
So what can I do to simplify this a little bit.
That's 105 19 times to 38.
That when I could do my head.
And how do I put this on a factor of 30.
You multiply both sides by 19.
I will put this on 38 if I do the top Times 19 should get 95 said deal at the end you're left with 10
over 38 which is also 5 over 19.
All right that's the current Aitu.
How about i3.
Well I 3 now simply eight minus two fifths and I won again is 105 over 19 five.
I can get rid of and I can factor out should be 21.
So what are you left with now you're going to be left with eight minus two times.
21 is 42 over 19.
This gets really messy but actually eight times 19 Well eight times 20 is very very easy.
It's 160.
So this here should be 152 minus 42 and all of that is over 19.
So here at the end you're going to be left with 110 over 19.
Actually you could have probably guessed that one because you could have automatically just use the
equation 1 over here to obtain that because you know you have one two or five hundred five over 19 here
and you have two which we just found was five over 19 therefore I 3.
Here has to be 110 over 19.
I substitute numbers for this one.
Five over 19 gives you zero point two six three amps.
And the last one won 10 over 19 doing everything approximately here.
Five point five five point seven eight nine I'm sorry it's correct that seventy nine amps.
So there you have it folks this is just kind of algebra at this point.
Once you have your three equations you pick any method you want in order to solve that and kind of do
it my way I kind of like to leave things in fractions.
It's kind of easy for me to check the answer actually after once I have everything on the common denominator.